import ExamplesExplorer from '@site/src/components/ExamplesExplorer';

# 3.5 Clock

Clock [keywords](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html?tag=Clock)
allow accurate simulation of time‑dependent behavior, for example when a user closes a laptop lid but does not log out.
The keywords are based on the Playwright
[Clock](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-clock) API.

There are ways to adjust the time, like
[Set Time](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html?tag=Clock#Set%20Time)
or
[Advance Clock](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html?tag=Clock#Advance%20Clock).
Many keywords support a mode that defines how the clock is advanced:
1) Underlying timers are fired, meaning the clock is fast‑forwarded to the time.
2) Timers are not fired, meaning the clock jumps to the time.

The former simulates time passing (just faster). The latter is more like closing the laptop lid,
where the application does not run.

## Exercise

Let’s look at a basic example of clock keywords. There is a `clock.html` page which allows you
to test different
[clock](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html?tag=Clock)
keywords. To use the page your test should do setup like this:

```robotframework
*** Settings ***
Library    Browser
Library    DateTime
Test Setup    Clock Setup

*** Test Cases ***
Set Time Continues To Run Clock
    Log    Your test here

*** Keywords ***
Clock Setup
    VAR    ${file}    file://${CURDIR}/clock.html
    New Browser    chromium    False
    New Page    ${file}
```

### Set clock
Write a test that fast‑forwards time 60 minutes into the future. The clock should remain running
after time is adjusted. Write an assertion that verifies that time is correctly set.

### Pause, advance, and resume clock
Write a test that pauses time 90 minutes in the future and verifies that time is set.
Then advance time 30 minutes into the future and verify that time is set.
Lastly, resume the clock and observe that time is passing.

## Solution
Solution can be found in the `clock.robot` file.

<ExamplesExplorer path="3/3.5" title="Chapter 3.5 Examples" />
