import ExamplesExplorer from '@site/src/components/ExamplesExplorer';

# 3.6 Locator handler

Locator handler is an automatic way to handle unexpected overlays on a web page, for example
cookie banners or similar elements, which can appear at a random time during test execution.
Although it is usually better to handle cookie banners by setting the cookie (for example with
JavaScript), this is not always possible. In those cases, the
[Add Locator Handler Click](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html#Add%20Locator%20Handler%20Click)
and
[Add Locator Handler Custom](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html#Add%20Locator%20Handler%20Custom)
keywords offer an automatic way to handle such popups.

These keywords register a waiter/handler that waits for elements to appear in the page.
If an element is seen, it performs the action defined by the handler. There is a default handler
that performs a click (for example on a button that accepts or denies cookies), and a custom
handler that allows registering a custom set of actions: click, fill, check, and uncheck.

## Exercise

Let’s look at a basic example with the
[Add Locator Handler Click](https://marketsquare.github.io/robotframework-browser/Browser.html#Add%20Locator%20Handler%20Click)
keyword.

To use the page, your test should set up like this:

```robotframework
*** Settings ***
Library    Browser
Library    Dialogs
Test Setup    Overlay Setup

*** Test Cases ***
Overlay Blocks Input
    Type Text    id=textInput    Hello World
    Pause Execution    message=No overlay
    Click    id=openOverlay
    Pause Execution    message=There is overlay
    Type Text    id=textInput    What is your name?

*** Keywords ***
Overlay Setup
    VAR    ${file}    file://${CURDIR}/overlay.html
    New Browser    chromium    False
    New Page    ${file}
    Set Browser Timeout    5s
```

The `Overlay Blocks Input` test fails, because when the test clicks the `id=openOverlay`
element, it displays an overlay that blocks writing to the input element.

Your task is to use the `Add Locator Handler Click` keyword and register
a handler that will remove the overlay. As a bonus, configure the locator handler
to work only two times and make the test fail on the third attempt.

## Solution
The solution can be found in the `overlay.robot` file.

<ExamplesExplorer path="3/3.6" title="Chapter 3.6 Examples" />
