---
shuffleQuestions: false
shuffleAnswers: true
---

### Which THREE of the following statements about Robot Framework are correct?

> LO-1.1 Recall the two main Use-Cases of Robot Framework

- [X] Robot Framework supports both test automation and robotic process automation (RPA)
- [ ] Robot Framework was originally developed specifically for unit testing.
   > Initially designed for acceptance testing
- [X] Robot Framework's keyword-driven approach makes it accessible to users with minimal programming skills.
- [x] Robot Framework can automate interactions with various technologies, such as APIs and databases.
- [ ] Robot Framework is not extensible.
   > RF can be extended with keyword libraries

### Which TWO of the following are key attributes of Robot Framework's syntax that contribute to its simplicity and human-readability?

> LO-1.3 Recall the key attributes of the syntax that makes Robot Framework simple and human-readable

- [ ] Use of complex nested structures is not possible.
    > Robot Framework avoids complex nested structures but they can be used.
- [ ] Focus on the use of specialized symbols and character sequences as syntax.
    > Specialized symbols and character sequences are kept to a minimum to improve readability. Robot Framework emphasizes clarity over complexity.
- [X] String first syntax where all arguments are strings unless explicitly stated otherwise.
    > Unquoted strings are considered as strings, while variables need special syntax like `{variable}` or integers like `${42}`.
- [ ] There are no programming control flows such as if statements and for loops.
    > Control flows are present in Robot Framework as described in `LO-5.2.X` .
- [X] Reduced use of special characters.
    > Compared to programming languages the focus is on reducing special characters, making the syntax human-readable and user-friendly.

### Which of the following statements is TRUE for `*** Test Cases ***` or `*** Tasks ***` section?

> LO-2.1.2.3 Understand the purpose of the `*** Test Cases ***` or `*** Tasks ***` section.

1. [ ] The section can be used in resource files.
    > Not allowed in resource files
1. [ ] The section can only have keyword calls in them.
    > Syllabus chapter mentions multiple settings (also control flows, var assigns, groups)
1. [ ] The section is not mandatory in a suite file.
    > One kind of this section is mandatory in suite files
1. [X] The section defines the executable elements of a suite.


### Which TWO of the following sections use indentation to define the body of an element?

> LO-2.2.1 Understand and apply the mechanics of indentation and separation in Robot Framework.

- [ ] `*** Settings ***`
    > Items have no bodies requiring indentation
- [ ] `*** Variables ***`
    > Items have no bodies requiring indentation
- [X] `*** Test Cases ***`
    > Keywork calls in the body of a test case are indented.
- [x] `*** Keywords ***`
    > Keywork calls in the body of a keyword are indented.
- [ ] `*** Comments ***`
    > Contents are completely ignored


### Which THREE of the following are execution artifacts generated by Robot Framework

> LO-2.3.2 Explain the execution artifacts generated by Robot Framework.

- [ ] Configuration files (`robot.yaml`)
    > Configuration files are not generated as a result of test execution, but are rather part of the project setup and development.
- [x] Log files (`log.html`)
    > A detailed log file that provides an HTML view of the execution, including keyword-level details.
- [ ] Resource files (`keywords.resource`)
    > Resource files are used by Robot Framework but are not created as execution artifacts; they are components used by tests.
- [x] Report files (`report.html`)
    > A summary report that gives an overview of the execution results, including statistics of tests|tasks executed, passed, and failed.
- [x] Output files (`output.xml`)
    > A machine-readable file containing ALL logged execution details, limited by the given log-level.


### Match the correct prefixes to different variable access types

> LO-3.2.1-1 Recall the four syntactical access types to variables with their prefixes

Given the following prefixes:
```
1. `@`
2. `$`
3. `%`
4. `&`
```

Match the variable prefixes to their correct descriptions:

_(Use Drag&Drop to match)_

1. Store multiple values in a list structure
2. Store values as a single entity
3. Read access to an environment variable.
4. Store key-value pairs in a dictionary structure.


### Which TWO of the following statements are key characteristics of `Test Teardown` and `Task Teardown` ?

> LO-4.2.2-1 Recall key characteristics, benefits, and syntax of Test|Task Teardown

- [x] When `Test|Task Teardown` fails, the test|task is marked as failed in reports and logs.
- [ ] `Test|Task Teardown` runs only when the Test|Task passes.
    > Teardowns run always, even if a preceding keyword fails.
- [x] All keywords within the `Test|Task Teardown` are executed, even when one of them fails.
- [ ] `Test|Task Teardown` must be set separately for each test|task.
    > You can use the setting `Test Teardown` or `Task Teardown` in the `*** Settings ***` section to define a teardown for all tests|tasks in the suite which do not have a locally define Teardown with the `[Teardown]` setting.



### Which of the following statements describes the purpose of tags most accurately

> LO-4.4 Recall the purpose of Test|Task Tags in Robot Framework

1. [ ] Tags are case-sensitive labels used for grouping suites and tests|tasks.
    > Tags are case-insensitive and only used for tests|tasks or keywords.
1. [ ] Tags are assigned to suites to create statistical summary of the suite results.
    > Tags are assigned to tests|tasks, not to suites, even though a default can be configured in the suite setting, which result in automatic tagging of all tests|tasks within that suite.
1. [x] Tags offer a simple mechanism for classifying and controlling the execution of tests|tasks.
1. [ ] Only pre-defined tags, such as `smoke`, `regression`, and `critical` can be assigned to tests|tasks
    > Tags are free-form text labels.


### In the given scenario which of the test cases logs only a single entry

_Read_ the keyword explaination carefully to understand the given scenario!

## _Keyword:_ Log Many

**Arguments**

`* messages`

**Documentation**

```
Logs the given messages as separate entries using the INFO level.

Supports also logging list and dictionary variable items individually.
```

## _Variables_:

The following Variables are available to each test case.

```robot
*** Variables ***
@{user_names}    Alice    Bob    Charlie
&{name_id_pairs}    Alice=001    Bob=002    Charlie=003
```

> LO-5.1.4.2 Recall that `@{list}` unpacks the values of a list variable when accessed

- [ ] ```robot
  *** Test Cases ***
  Test A
    Log Many    Alice    Bob    Charlie
  ```
  > 'Logs three entries: "Alice", "Bob", and "Charlie".'
- [x] ```robot
  *** Test Cases ***
  Test B
    Log Many    ${user_names}
  ```
    > This logs a single entry: the string representation of the list.
    >
    > It logs: `['Alice', 'Bob', 'Charlie']`
- [ ] ```robot
  *** Test Cases ***
  Test C
    Log Many    @{user_names}
  ```
    > Logs three entries: `Alice`, `Bob`, and `Charlie`.
- [ ] ```robot
  *** Test Cases ***
  Test D
    Log Many    @{name_id_pairs}
  ```
    > Logs three entries: `Alice`, `Bob`, and `Charlie`
    > this is a rare use case but if dictionaries are unpacked as list, it is a list of its keys.

### Which of the following statements describes the contents of built-in variable `${EXECDIR}`

> LO-5.1.6 Recall that Robot Framework provides access to execution information via Built-In variables

1. [ ] An absolute path to the directory where the current suite or resource file is located.
    > Description for `${CURDIR}`
1. [x] An absolute path to the directory where test execution was started from.
1. [ ] An absolute path to the directory where output files are written.
    > Description for `${OUTPUT_DIR}`.
1. [ ] An absolute path to the system temporary directory.
    > Description for `${TEMPDIR}`.
